Add datasharing to redshift configs page (#9196)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/snippets/_redshift-datasharing.md

Previously, the Redshift adapter used PostgreSQL-compatible catalog tables (for example, `pg_*`, `information_schema`) for metadata operations such as listing relations, schemas, and columns. These tables only surface objects within the currently connected database, which prevents cross-database operations needed for [Redshift Datasharing](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/dg/datashare-overview.html).

> Starting `dbt-redshift` v1.11.0rc1, you can set `datasharing: true` in your `profiles.yml` to enable cross-database and cross-cluster access. When enabled, `dbt-redshift` switches metadata queries to Redshift's native `SHOW` system commands. You can then materialize models into a database or cluster other than the one specified in your profile using `{{ config(database='other_db') }}`.

Reviewer: Hiya Bianca

Just a small suggestion to (and to address the JIRA / slack request), maybe add a link to the Redshift setup page so that readers can jump to the deeper doc if they need it rather than reading to the end to find it.

Author: Hey @nataliefiann , thanks for the suggestion! I added a link to the setup pages in this [commit](https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/9196/changes/5e8980e34338f4837edf06b55bd0f5ca492b35ef), but I added it at the end of this section (outside the snippet) so users can go to that page if needed.

    dev:
      type: redshift
      host: hostname.region.redshift.amazonaws.com
      ...
      datasharing: true  # default: false
```

</File>

Once enabled, you can materialize a model into a different database by setting `database` in the model config. For example:

```sql
{{ config(database='other_db') }}

select * from {{ ref('my_model') }}
```

The following macros switch to `SHOW` commands when `datasharing: true`:

| Macro | Without `datasharing` | With `datasharing` |
|---|---|---|
| `list_relations_without_caching` | `information_schema.tables` | `SHOW TABLES FROM SCHEMA` |
| `list_schemas`, `check_schema_exists` | `pg_namespace` | `SHOW SCHEMAS FROM DATABASE` |
| `get_columns_in_relation` | `information_schema.columns` | `SHOW COLUMNS FROM TABLE` |
| Catalog queries | `pg_class`, `pg_tables`, `pg_views` | `SHOW TABLES FROM SCHEMA` + `SVV_REDSHIFT_COLUMNS` |
| `get_relation_last_modified` | `information_schema.tables` | `SHOW TABLES FROM SCHEMA` |
| Grants | `pg_user`, `has_table_privilege()` | `SHOW GRANTS ON TABLE` |

`ra3_node: true` also enables this behavior and is supported for backward compatibility. For new projects, use `datasharing: true` instead.

:::note

> If you see `pg_*` queries running with `datasharing: true`, this is not automatically a bug. Only the macros listed above are migrated &mdash; some queries remain on `pg_*` by design (for example, dependency tracking and UDF/function discovery. In addition any custom macro overrides in your project are not affected by this setting. To confirm whether a `pg_*` query is expected, check which macro is being overridden and which metadata operation is running.

Author: ```suggestion
If you see `pg_*` queries running with `datasharing` enabled, this is not automatically a bug. Only the macros listed above are migrated &mdash; some macros remain on `pg_*` by design (for example, `get_relations` for dependency tracking and `list_function_relations_without_caching` for function discovery). Custom macro overrides in your project are not affected. To confirm whether a `pg_*` query is expected, check which macro is being overridden and which metadata operation is running.
```

> If you see `pg_*` queries running with `datasharing: true`, this is not automatically a bug. Only the macros listed above are migrated &mdash; some queries remain on `pg_*` by design (for example, late-binding view columns, external columns, and dependency tracking), and custom macro overrides in your project are not affected by this setting. To confirm whether a `pg_*` query is expected, check which macro is being overridden and which metadata operation is running.

Author: Added this note. @tauhid621 @colin-rogers-dbt can you please confirm if this is correct?

Reviewer 2: added a proposal below, I believe the only remaining macros with pg calls should be get_relations and list_function_relations_without_caching

> If you see `pg_*` queries running with `datasharing: true`, this is not automatically a bug. Only the macros listed above are migrated &mdash; some queries remain on `pg_*` by design (for example, late-binding view columns, external columns, and dependency tracking), and custom macro overrides in your project are not affected by this setting. To confirm whether a `pg_*` query is expected, check which macro is being overridden and which metadata operation is running.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you see `pg_*` queries running with `datasharing: true`, this is not automatically a bug. Only the macros listed above are migrated &mdash; some queries remain on `pg_*` by design (for example, dependency tracking and UDF/function discovery. In addition any custom macro overrides in your project are not affected by this setting. To confirm whether a `pg_*` query is expected, check which macro is being overridden and which metadata operation is running.
```

> If you see `pg_*` queries running with `datasharing: true` enabled, this is not automatically a bug. Only the macros listed above are migrated &mdash; some queries remain on `pg_*` by design (for example, late-binding view columns, external columns, and dependency tracking), and custom macro overrides in your project are not affected by this setting. To confirm whether a `pg_*` query is expected, check which macro is being overridden and which metadata operation is running.

Author: ```suggestion
If you see `pg_*` queries running with `datasharing: true`, this is not automatically a bug. Only the macros listed above are migrated &mdash; some queries remain on `pg_*` by design (for example, late-binding view columns, external columns, and dependency tracking), and custom macro overrides in your project are not affected by this setting. To confirm whether a `pg_*` query is expected, check which macro is being overridden and which metadata operation is running.
```

> If you see `pg_*` queries running with `datasharing` enabled, this is not automatically a bug. Only the macros listed above are migrated &mdash; some macros remain on `pg_*` by design (for example, `get_relations` for dependency tracking and `list_function_relations_without_caching` for function discovery). Custom macro overrides in your project are not affected. To confirm whether a `pg_*` query is expected, check which macro is being overridden and which metadata operation is running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::note
If you see `pg_*` queries running with `datasharing` enabled, this is not necessarily a bug. Only the macros listed above are migrated &mdash; some macros remain on `pg_*` by design (for example, `get_relations` for dependency tracking and `list_function_relations_without_caching` for function discovery). Custom macro overrides in your project are not affected. To confirm whether a `pg_*` query is expected, check which macro is being overridden and which metadata operation is running.
```

:::

> Take note of the following limitations when using `datasharing`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you see `pg_*` queries running with `datasharing` enabled, this is not automatically a bug. Only the macros listed above are migrated &mdash; some macros remain on `pg_*` by design (for example, `get_relations` for dependency tracking and `list_function_relations_without_caching` for function discovery). Custom macro overrides in your project are not affected. To confirm whether a `pg_*` query is expected, check which macro is being overridden and which metadata operation is running.
:::

The following limitations apply when using `datasharing`:
```
